Sometimes people think the key to success is processes and the action of the processes.  But one key point is missing is the people and how the people think about. The same people would have different thinking at different times which will result totally different consequence.
 
We worked on too much on the refine of the process without noticing that we have sacrificed a lot of goodness in people side.
 
As a start, allow me to start with a fact--It is not rare to see a turnover hike after a company carries out a new process or a new boss.  We may conclude this as a culture disagreement or as general as politic reason (borrow from the book you shared with me). But all things happened are not just as radical as it looks. It will be rare for a person to make an ideology decision in a short time.  When changes happen, instinct reaction for everyone is trying to adapt it. The goodbye decision could only be made after the efforts of adapting has been proved to be vain.
 
Let us get back to our case a little bit, from my social chat with friends in this company, I found one scary atmosphere is spreading that people feels way too disappointed about the ongoing things. Work turns to be nothing to do with their willing and their ideals.  People became a chain in their organization, they lost their will to be initiative, to be responsible, to be honored. It is just a job.  One extreme case is one of a 5 star rated workmate will respond all difficulty and disharmony with a pet phrase--"who cares". This is a super dangerous moral issue in my mind.
 
Back to our specific technical world, we are also affected quite much with all of these new rends. More and more people choose to be absolute doers even they want to take advantage of their wisdom for sure. Maybe, some stakeholders think this s good signal of execution success. But the irresponsible and do-without-questions altitude produce a lot of ongoing deliverables that I am not feel too happy about.  Managers realized this and trying to re-foster the technical climate or the team climate. This may still work for new-hire. But for seasoned veterans who has enough experience to make prediction, they are kind of unwilling to. “It is just a job and so far it is still secure. Why bother?”
 
Close to the OCTO proposal, I will not deny the starting point of this is for good reason and good hope. But it falls to the story of the rulers vs mobs again. Mobs may not care because they may not realize the starting points rulers are thinking; or an arrogant mob will think the rulers are even not as smart as he is and the decision ruler made is just naive and not worthy.  I am at the position of both and rulers and mobs now. So, I could feel this clearly. A trust question was raised again. Based on my circle, besides you, few people get enough credit to be the ruler (not flattering). If rulers always stay too high, they are out of the sake of the mobs. Our enterprise culture is we did not have architecture and central roles in this company before and it works for a few years. More generally, if people are talking about different concerns(channels) all the time. The trust issue will deteriorate. An interesting fast I found is, all the general documents are written there and few people will put the attention too. Wiki has a feature of listing all people and number of an article. A lot of high level docs and enterprise ones will have as little as 2 digital reads and a half of the reads are from the author. They are multiple reasons behind that. One simple one without explanation is it is not helpful not even as cookbook.
 
As a conclusion, I will boldly claim the push model does not work now if we cannot re-foster and rebuild the climate and trust base. In a technical company (I assume we are), we need heroes like Jeff Dean. We need team projects which categorized as tech/fans only. We need sharing not dictating.
 
A last point maybe too personal, a happy developer will spend his/her nerdy overtime to make some goodness to help the overall business without request. An unhappy developer will have lost interest to everything his/her firm is doing and find other land as hobbies or as next stop.
 
I was unable to propose a vaccine to stop the deterioration. It will take time and efforts. But I hope we could put some efforts to fix from process and technical concerns to people as well.  We need more trust and credit to steering the movement of the ship.
 
